.\" Manpage for pqmessenger.
.\" Contact abdelhamid@meddeb.net to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 3 "3 Jun 2017" "2.0" "pqMessenger"
.SH NAME
pqMessenger \- A messaging middleware for pqChecker plug-in and a JMS server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Allows two-way communication between pqchecker.so plug-in for OpenLDAP and a Java JMS compliant application.
.SH DESCRIPTION
"pqChecker" plugin for the OpenLDAP directory server allows to control the passwords contents quality. It also allows to broadcast these passwords as soon as they are modified. To set up its operation, it uses a text file subject to system access restrictions: 
.B
pqparams.dat.
pqMessenger allows to JMS compliant application:
.LP
- Read and modify operating parameters.
.br
- Deliver modified passwords to other systems in real time.

 --------------        -------------    JNI    -------------         JMS           ----------------------------
.br
| pqparams.dat |<---->|  pqChecker  |<------->| pqMessenger |<------------------->| JMS compliant application  |
.br
 --------------        -------------           -------------                       ----------------------------

.SH SETTINGS
/etc/default/prmessenger contains the parameters to configure module startup:
.LP
.B
PQMESSENGER_HOME: 
Path to pqmessenger jar file location (default /opt/pqmessenger).
.LP
.B
NATIVE_LIB_HOME: 
Path to pqchecker.so file location (default /usr/lib/ldap).
.LP
.B
CONFIG_HOME: 
Path to configuration files.
.LP
.B
CONFIG_FILE: 
Configuration file name (default config.xml).
.LP
.B
CONFIGLOG_FILE: 
Logging configuration file name (default log4j.xml).
.LP
Running pqMessenger is supported by Apache JSVC. Therefore, the whole parameters of this utility can be used to launch pqMessenger, especially:
.LP
.B
JAVA_HOME: 
Path to Java JDK.
.LP
.B
PQMESSENGER_USER:
System user running pqMessenger.
.LP
Consult jsvc documentation for details on this.
.LP
In addition to this setting at startup, an XML configuration file contains other parameters. Mainly, the parameters of the JMS server: address, port, login IDs. This file may also contains an override value of NATIVE_LIB_HOME.

.SH SEE ALSO
pqchecker(3), jsvc(1)
.br
Further details about pqChecker/pqMessenger: http://www.meddeb.net/pqchecker
.br
JMS: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/jms
.SH BUGS
abdelhamid@meddeb.net
.br
https://github.com/ameddeb/pqchecker/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Abdelhamid MEDDEB (abdelhamid@meddeb.net)
